Post process (#138)
festim-dev/FESTIM-workshop: book/content/post_process/paraview.md

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.18.1
kernelspec:
  display_name: festim-workshop
  language: python
  name: python3
---

> # Viewing exports in Paraview #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Visualising fields in Paraview #
```

> # Viewing exports in Paraview #

Reviewer: I like the step-by-step guide. We should extend this with:
- the special case of a 1D field where you need to Plot Over Line
- some basic paraview features:
   - changing the colourbar
   - slicing (using 3D data)
   - plotting a profile
   - transient data and time controls (play, back, forward...)

Paraview is a strong visualization tool that users can use to view their FESTIM exports. This tutorial goes over a simple introduction to viewing results in Paraview. Look at __[Paraview's download page](https://www.paraview.org/download/)__ for more information on installing Paraview.

Objectives
* Creating a VTX species export
* Opening file in Paraview

+++

> ## Creating a VTX species export  ##

Reviewer: After this code cell we should say what the users should expect to see (ie. the creation of a folder called "paraview/out.bp")

> First, let us run a simple 2D diffusion problem and export a VTK file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let us run a simple 2D diffusion problem and export to VTX:
```

top_surface = F.SurfaceSubdomain(id=1, locator=lambda x: np.isclose(x[1], 1.0))
bottom_surface = F.SurfaceSubdomain(id=2, locator=lambda x: np.isclose(x[1], 0.0))

my_model.mesh = festim_mesh
my_model.subdomains = [top_surface, bottom_surface, vol]

H = F.Species("H")
my_model.species = [H]
my_model.temperature = 400

my_model.boundary_conditions = [
    F.FixedConcentrationBC(subdomain=top_surface, value=1.0, species=H),
    F.FixedConcentrationBC(subdomain=bottom_surface, value=0.0, species=H),
]

my_model.exports = [
    F.VTXSpeciesExport(filename="paraview/out.bp",field=H,subdomain=vol,checkpoint=False)
]

my_model.settings = F.Settings(atol=1e-10, rtol=1e-10, transient=False)

my_model.initialise()
my_model.run()
```

## Opening file in Paraview ##

Now, we can open Paraview and open our exported file.

First, we need to select the correct file by navigating to the file browser located in the top left:

```{image} paraview/paraview_opening.png
:class: bg-primary mb-1
:align: center
```

Then, we select our `out.bp` file and press OK on the bottom:

```{image} paraview/paraview_selecting_file.png
:class: bg-primary mb-1
:align: center
```

> 

Reviewer: I think the first time you open a .bp file a pop up windows shows up and you need to select from 2 or 3 readers.
